[Music]
so you want to build a nuke eh well
for that you need some uranium uranium
is a radioactive element
it has many uses including curing cancer
generating power
and making people immediately stop
[ __ ] existing anyway
once you've mined some uranium you'll
need to enrich it why
because isotopes if you vary the
neutrons in an element you get different
cosplay versions
of that element and the version we want
here is uranium-235
because it's good in bonds and [ __ ] so
it's off to the centrifuges for some
wizzy fun time and soon you'll have
shiny apocalypse cookies before you can
say nuclear holocaust
and if you're still serious about
building this thing we'll need to talk
about fission
and fusion thanks to this smoking hot
piece of physicist booty we now know you
can make a little bit of mass
into a lot of energy and one way of
doing that is via
fission fission is when you give big
atomic nuclei a bonk and convert them
into smaller nuclei
and you get loads of energy from that
it's how nuclear reactors work and also
bombs fusion is the reverse of that
basically when nuclei combine
it's how the sun works and also bombs in
a fission bomb the goal is to get the
uranium to release neutrons
one can do this via explosives or
claiming to have engaged in sexual
intercourse with the uranium's mother
these neutrons will hit the unstable
nuclei of the rest of the uranium
and at that point well whatever argument
it was that led you to detonate this
thing
let's just say you won that one but if
you're really pissed
off then you'll need a fusion bomb this
is a double whammy
the first stage is fission then switches
to fusion creating essentially
a star on earth anyway that's your nuke
built so it's off to the races baby
well we'll need somewhere quiet to test
it out how's about somewhere near the
hornado de nueto desert in new mexico
lovely little spot for a picnic make
sure to bring some jam
those little triangular sandwiches and a
crippling certainty that thanks to you
humankind will forevermore be held
hostage
by itself the first ever nuclear device
is detonated on july 16th 1945
codename trinity the device explodes
with the equivalent power of 22 000 tons
of tnt later robert oppenheimer the
father of the atomic bomb
will say i remember the line from the
hindu scripture
the baha'i vagita now i am become death
the destroyer of worlds just under a
month later the b-29 and nola gay will
drop the fish and bomb little boy
over the japanese city of hiroshima it
will explode with the power of 15 000
tons
of tnt above will preside a mushroom
cloud
60 000 feet high below 70 000 people
are immediately incinerated and
mutilated by a shock wave traveling
faster than the speed of sound
thousands of people who are not killed
in the initial blast will be exposed to
ionizing radiation
suffering the effects for decades to
come hemorrhaging
cancer and genetic mutations three days
later
a second bomb called fat man will be
dropped on the seaport of nagasaki
at least 60 000 people will be killed
japan will surrender three weeks later
and the governments of the world will
almost unanimously agree
that this must never happen again not
intentionally
not by accident not by ignorance
in 1947 the bulletin of the atomic
scientists devised a doomsday
clock with midnight representing
absolute global catastrophe
today the clock stands at 100 seconds to
midnight
pretty bad but frankly it's hard to see
what they're getting their little lab
coats in a twist about eh
world war ii was ages ago the threat of
nuclear war is long gone
other than wow okay in 1961
several four megaton nukes might have
slightly fallen out of a b-52 over north
carolina
one of which narrowly avoided
destinating because of a single safety
switch
but okay other than that well in 1962 a
soviet patrol submarine might have
slightly lost contact with the land
the captain assuming world war iii had
already started and was about to fire a
kiloton nuke torpedo at a nearby u.s
fleet before the flotilla commander
could calm him down
and maybe 1967 when a solar flare took
out a few norad radars the us might have
slightly freaked out and almost launched
a bomber counter-strike against the
soviet union
then 1969 north korea shot down a u.s
radar surveillance plane president
richard nixon allegedly drunk gave the
order for a nuclear strike in
retaliation
luckily henry kissinger stepped in and
we're still here
or just the entire cold war basically 40
years of unrelenting nuclear panic
and then you remember the precarious
state of mutually assured destruction
which is well when a mummy country and a
daddy country hate each other very much
sometimes they get embroiled in a
nuclear standoff and
one little deterrent against pushing the
button is the knowledge that in the time
it takes for your missiles to reach your
enemy
your enemy will have kindly fired theirs
back at you the idea
is that if you're rational neither of
you are going to strike first
until you remember that humans are not
rational we are i believe the
anthropological term is
[ __ ] morons currently nine countries
have nukes that's the us
russia france my homeland of crumpets
and self-hate pakistan
india israel the uppity korea and of
course china
and that's not to mention several
countries probably have hypersonic
nuclear missiles now
which can fly upwards of five times the
speed of sound
rendering modern missile defense systems
about as effective as putting up a
little sign that says
ah don't newcast mate you said you
wouldn't what are you doing you said you
wouldn't why are you oh for [ __ ] sake
you're such a dick
or rather if these puppies launch in the
words of the motto of the us postal
service
neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom
of night shall stay these couriers from
swift completion of their appointed
rounds
it's a hundred seconds to midnight baby
nuclear armageddon
ain't gone anywhere the cold war ended
in 91 but the real war the silent war
has only just started because we
discovered a 23rd century technology in
the 20th century and we're too primitive
for this ship right now
and ironically nukes are so prevalent in
entertainment and media that we've
almost forgotten this is real that if we
aren't constantly vigilant apocalypse
could happen any time and it will be the
end of
everything including possibly the only
instance of life anywhere in the
universe
all just because of some mental general
or [ __ ] dictator
as einstein allegedly said i know not
with what weapons world war 3 will be
fought
but world war 4 will be fought with
sticks and stones
anyway have a lovely week won't you